---
layout: page
title: Gamer Gate
subtitle: Misogyny in gamer communities, the case of the kiA subreddit
cover-img: assets/lights.webp
---
<style type="text/css" media="screen">
.row_div{
    display: flex;
    justify-content: space-between;


}
.center_div{
    display: grid; 
    justify-content: center; 
    align-items: center;
    width: 100%;
    grid-template-columns: 100%;
    grid-template-rows: auto;

}
body {
    font: normal 13px Verdana, Arial, sans-serif;
    text-align: justify
}
h1{
    font: Verdana, Arial, sans-serif;
    font-size: 26px;
}
h2 {
    font: Verdana, Arial, sans-serif;
    font-size: 20px;
}
h3{
    font: Verdana, Arial, sans-serif;
    font-size: 16px;
}

</style>

<!---
cover image source = https://spectrum.ieee.org/fiber-optic-cable-record
-->

# Introduction
## What are we talking about ?
Our datastory is about [Gamergate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamergate), an online harassement campaign against feminism, diversity, and progressivism in video game culture, that was present on multiple online platforms, including reddit. Two subreddits where created in response: r/KotakuInAction, r/GamerGhazi, which exclusively are about this topic. The trigger for this event was a blog post published in August 2014 by Eron Gjoni, the ex-partner of game developer Zoë Quinn, in which he made allegations about their personal relationship.

Although the claims were personal and unverified, they were seized upon by segments of online communities, which quickly shifted the focus toward accusations of “ethics in games journalism.” In practice, however, the movement became dominated by coordinated harassment, particularly targeting women in gaming, including Quinn, Anita Sarkeesian, and Brianna Wu, through doxxing, threats, and sustained online abuse.

<div class="center_div">

<iframe src="assets/posts_per_day_gamerghazi.html" width="100%" height=400px frameBorder="0"></iframe>

<iframe src="assets/posts_per_day_kotakuinaction.html" width="100%" height=400px frameBorder="0"></iframe>
</div>

These two graphs show the number of posts in each of the subreddits created during the Gamer gate, we can see that peak activity was around the end of october. The post volume on r/GamerGhazi stayed elevated until march of 2015, where it declined and stabilized. r/KotakuInAction saw a rapid peak and decline, and subsequent stabilization after the initial burst of posting.

## Why this topic ?
Reddit’s semi-anonymous structure and inconsistent moderation practices have historically made it a fertile environment for the rapid spread of hostility and harassment. In this datastory, we examine the evolution of one such episode, using data to uncover how the event unfolded across the platform and how various communities responded, interacted, and influenced each other during the escalation. 

## The datasets
### Reddit Hyperlink Network
The main dataset (available [here](https://snap.stanford.edu/data/soc-RedditHyperlinks.html)) used for this project was created by a group at Stanford. It is composed of two separate datasets with the same structure, with the only difference being that the first is extracted from post titles and the second one from the post bodies :

| Label | Description |
| ------- | ------- |
| **SOURCE_SUBREDDIT** | The subreddit where the link was posted | 
| **TARGET_SUBREDDIT** | The subreddit that the link links to | 
| **POST_ID** | Unique id of the post |
| **TIMESTAMP** | Time of the post |
| **LINK_SENTIMENT** | 1 for positive or neutral intent, -1 for negative intent |
|**PROPERTIES**| Multiple integer fields grouped in a csv, visit the dataset source for more information|

This data represents a hyperlink network and was extracted from publicly available Reddit data of 2.5 years from Jan 2014 to April 2017.

### Pushshift
The second dataset that we used was generated by pushift, which uses the reddit API. We selected the same period of time as the first dataset. It contains a log and metadata of all posts made during the time period, including usernames, titles, post bodies and more!  
# Research questions

<div class="row_div">
<div>
<iframe src="assets/topics_montlhy_kia.html" width=500px height=400px></iframe>
</div>
<div>
<iframe src="assets/topics_montlhy_gia.html" width=500px height=400px></iframe>
</div>
</div>
<div class = "iframe_mat" >
<iframe class = "iframe_mat" src="assets/subreddit_links_and_posts_slider.html" width=900px height=900px></iframe>
</div>
<div class = "iframe_mat" >
<iframe class = "iframe_mat" src="assets/topics_subreddit.html" width=900px height=900px></iframe>
</div>